README.md, before:

# PASEOS
PASEOS - PAseos Simulates the Environment for Operating multiple Spacecraft 

This project is currently under development. Use at your own risk. :)

## How PASEOS works

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/aidotse/PASEOS/">
    <img src="resources/images/datastructure.svg" alt="Scheme"  width="910" height="459">
  </a>
  <p align="center">
    Description of PASEOS data structure
  </p>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/aidotse/PASEOS/">
    <img src="resources/images/flowchart.svg" alt="Scheme"  width="910" height="459">
  </a>
  <p align="center">
    Description of PASEOS workflow on an individual device
  </p>
</p>

## Visualising PASEOS
Navigate to paseos/visualization to find a jupyter notebook containing examples of how to visualize PASEOS.
Visualization can be done in interactive mode or as an animation that is saved to disc.
In the figure below, Earth is visualized in the center as a blue sphere with different spacecraft in orbit.
Each spacecraft has a name and if provided, a battery level and a communications device.
The local device is illustrated with white text.
In the upper-right corner, the status of the communication link between each spacecraft is shown.
Finally, the time in the lower left and lower right corners correspond to the epoch and the PASEOS local simulation time.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/aidotse/PASEOS/">
    <img src="resources/images/animation.png" alt="Scheme"  width="900" height="500">
  </a>
  <p align="center">
    Snapshot of PASEOS visualization
  </p>
</p>

Commit message:

Added readme entry of status monitoring

README.md, after:

# PASEOS

PASEOS - PAseos Simulates the Environment for Operating multiple Spacecraft

This project is currently under development. Use at your own risk. :)

## How PASEOS works

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/aidotse/PASEOS/">
    <img src="resources/images/datastructure.svg" alt="Scheme"  width="910" height="459">
  </a>
  <p align="center">
    Description of PASEOS data structure
  </p>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/aidotse/PASEOS/">
    <img src="resources/images/flowchart.svg" alt="Scheme"  width="910" height="459">
  </a>
  <p align="center">
    Description of PASEOS workflow on an individual device
  </p>
</p>

### Writing simulation results to a file

To evaluate your results, you will likely want to track the operational parameters, such as actor battery status, currently running activitiy etc. of actors over the course of your simulation. By default, PASEOS will log the current actor status every 10 seconds, however you can change that rate. You can save the current log to a \*.csv file at any point.

```py
cfg = load_default_cfg() # loading cfg to modify defaults
cfg.io.logging_interval = 0.25  # log every 0.25 seconds
paseos_instance = paseos.init_sim(my_local_actor, cfg) # initialize paseos instance

# Performing activities, running the simulation (...)

sim.save_status_log_csv("output.csv")
```

## Visualising PASEOS

Navigate to paseos/visualization to find a jupyter notebook containing examples of how to visualize PASEOS.
Visualization can be done in interactive mode or as an animation that is saved to disc.
In the figure below, Earth is visualized in the center as a blue sphere with different spacecraft in orbit.
Each spacecraft has a name and if provided, a battery level and a communications device.
The local device is illustrated with white text.
In the upper-right corner, the status of the communication link between each spacecraft is shown.
Finally, the time in the lower left and lower right corners correspond to the epoch and the PASEOS local simulation time.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/aidotse/PASEOS/">
    <img src="resources/images/animation.png" alt="Scheme"  width="900" height="500">
  </a>
  <p align="center">
    Snapshot of PASEOS visualization
  </p>
</p>
